THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL. LII, NO.1. MARCH 1997
On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance
MARK M. CARHART*
ABSTRACT
Using a sample free of survivor bias, I demonstrate that common factors in stock
returns and investment expenses almost completely explain persistence in equity
mutual funds' mean and risk-adjusted returns. Hendricks, Patel and Zeckhauser's
(1993) "hot hands" result is mostly driven by the one-year momentum effect of
Jegadeesh and Titman (1993), but individual funds do not earn higher returns from
following the momentum strategy in stocks. The only significant persistence not
explained is concentrated in strong underperformance by the worst-return mutual
funds, The results do not support the existence of skilled or informed mutual fund
portfolio managers.
PERSISTENCEIN MUTUAL FUND performance does not reflect superior stock-picking
skill. Rather, common factors in stock returns and persistent differences in
mutual fund expenses and transaction costs explain almost all of the predict­
ability in mutual fund returns. Only the strong, persistent underperformance
by the worst-return mutual funds remains anomalous.
Mutual fund persistence is well documented in the finance literature, but
not well explained. Hendricks, Patel, and Zeckhauser (1993), Goetzmann and
Ibbotson (1994), Brown and Goetzmann (1995), and Wermers (1996) find
evidence of persistence in mutual fund performance over short-term horizons
of one to three years, and attribute the persistence to "hot hands" or common
investment strategies. Grinblatt and Titman (1992), Elton, Gruber, Das, and
Hlavka (1993), and Elton, Gruber, Das, and Blake (1996) document mutual
fund return predictability over longer horizons of five to ten years, and at­
tribute this to manager differential information or stock-picking talent. Con­
trary evidence comes from Jensen (1969), who does not find that good subse­
quent performance follows good past performance. Carhart (1992) shows that
persistence in expense ratios drives much of the long-term persistence in
mutual fund performance.
My analysis indicates that Jegadeesh and Titman's (1993) one-year momen­
tum in stock returns accounts for Hendricks, Patel, and Zeckhauser's (1993)
hot hands effect in mutual fund performance. However, funds that earn higher
* School of Business Administration, University of Southern California. I have benefited from
helpful conversations with countless colleagues and participants at various workshops and sem­
inars. I express particular thanks to Gene Fama, my dissertation committee chairman. I am also
grateful to Gene Fama, the Oscar Mayer Fellowship, and the Dimensional Fund Advisors Fellow­
ship for financial support. I thank Cliff Asness, Gene Fama, Ken French, and Russ Wermers for
generously providing data. Finally, I thank Bill Crawford, Jr., Bill Crawford, Sr., and ICDII
Micropal for access to, and assistance with, their database.
57

58 The Journal of Finance
one-year returns do so not because fund managers successfully follow momen­
tum strategies, but because some mutual funds just happen by chance to hold
relatively larger positions in last year's winning stocks. Hot-hands funds
infrequently repeat their abnormal performance. This is in contrast to Werm­
ers (1996), who suggests that it is the momentum strategies themselves that
generate short-term persistence, and Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1995),
who find that funds following momentum strategies realize better performance
before management fees and transaction expenses. While measuring whether
funds follow the momentum strategy is imperfect in my sample, individual
mutual funds that appear to follow the one-year momentum strategy earn
significantly lower abnormal returns after expenses. Thus, I conclude that
transaction costs consume the gains from following a momentum strategy in
stocks.
I demonstrate that expenses have at least a one-for-one negative impact on
fund performance, and that turnover also negatively impacts performance. By
my estimates, trading reduces performance by approximately 0.95 percent of
the trade's market value. Variation in costs per transaction across mutual
funds also explains part of the persistence in performance. In addition, I find
that fund performance and load fees are strongly and negatively related,
probably due to higher total transaction costs for load funds. Holding expense
ratios constant, load funds underperform no-load funds by approximately 80
basis points per year. (This figure ignores the load fees themselves.)
The joint-hypothesis problem of testing market efficiency conditional on the
imposed equilibrium model of returns clouds what little evidence there is in
this article to support the existence of mutual fund manager stock-picking
skill. Funds with high past alphas demonstrate relatively higher alphas and
expected returns in subsequent periods. However, these results are sensitive
to model misspecification, since the same model is used to rank funds in both
periods. In addition, these funds earn expected future alphas that are insig­
nificantly different from zero. Thus, the best past-performance funds appear to
earn back their expenses and transaction costs even though the majority
underperform by approximately their investment costs.
This study expands the existing literature by controlling for survivor bias,
and by documenting common-factor and cost-based explanations for mutual
fund persistence. Section I discusses the database and its relation to other
survivor-bias corrected data sets. Section II presents models of performance
measurement and their resulting pricing error estimates on passively-man­
aged benchmark equity portfolios. Section III documents and explains the
one-year persistence in mutual fund returns, and Section IV further interprets
the results. Section V examines and explains longer-term persistence, and
Section VI concludes.
I. Data
My mutual fund database covers diversified equity funds monthly from Jan­
uary 1962 to December 1993. The data are free of survivor bias, since they

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 59
Table I
Mutual Fund Database Summary Statistics
The table reports time-series averages of annual cross-sectional averages from 1962 to 1993. TNA
is total net assets, Flow is the percentage change in TNA adjusted for investment return and
mutual fund mergers. Exp ratio is total annual management and administrative expenses divided
by average TNA. Mturn is modified turnover and represents reported turnover plus 0.5 times
Flow. Maximum load is the total of maximum front-end, rear-end, and deferred sales charges as
a percentage of the investment. Live funds are those in operation at the end of the sample,
December 31, 1993. Dead funds are those that discontinued operations prior to this date.
Time-Series Averages of Cross-Sectional Average Annual Attributes, 1962-
1993
Avg AvgExp Avg Avg Avg
Total Avg AvgTNA Flow Ratio Mturn Percentage Max Age
Group Number Number ($ millions) (%/year) (%/year) (%/year) with Load Load (years)
All funds 1,892 509.1 $217.8 3.4% 1.14% 77.3% 64.5% 7.33% 18.1
By fund category
Aggressive 675 169.2 $ 95.6 5.0% 1.55% 99.7% 58.2% 7.38% 12.3
growth
Long term 618 168.5 $221.4 5.5% 1.09% 79.5% 59.7% 7.38% 16.4
growth
Growth & 599 171.4 $328.5 1.5% 0.91% 60.9% 70.0% 7.27% 23.8
income
By current status
Live funds 1,310 352.3 $268.7 4.3% 1.07% 76.2% 63.3% 7.29% 19.2
Dead funds 582 156.8 $ 46.8 -1.2% 1.44% 83.1% 68.5% 7.44% 14.9
include all known equity funds over this period. I obtain data on surviving
funds, and for funds that have disappeared since 1989, from MicropallInvest­
ment Company Data, Inc. (ICDI). For all other nonsurviving funds, the data
are collected from FundScope Magazine, United Babson Reports, Wiesenberger
Investment Companies, the Wall Street Journal, and past printed reports from
ICDI. See Carhart (l995a) for a more detailed description of database
construction.
Table I reports summary statistics on the mutual fund data. My sample
includes a total of 1,892 diversified equity funds and 16,109 fund years. The
sample omits sector funds, international funds, and balanced funds. The
remaining funds are almost equally divided among aggressive growth, long­
term growth, and growth-and-income categories. In an average year, the
sample includes 509 funds with average total net assets (TNA) of $218 million
and average expenses of 1.14 percent per year. In addition, funds trade 77.3
percent of the value of their assets (Mturn) in an average year. Since reported
turnover is the minimum of purchases and sales over average TNA, I obtain
Mturn by adding to reported turnover one-half of the percentage change in
TNA adjusted for investment returns and mergers. Also, over the full sample,
64.5 percent of funds charge load fees, which average 7.33 percent.

60 The Journal of Finance
By December 31, 1993, about one-third of the total funds in my sample had
ceased operations, so a sizeable portion of the database is not observable in
most commercially available mutual fund databases. Thus, survivor bias is an
important issue in mutual fund research. (See Brown, Goetzmann, Ibbotson,
and Ross (1992), Carhart (1995b), and Wermers (1996).) While my sample is,
to my knowledge, the largest and most complete survivor-bias-free mutual
fund database currently available, Grinblatt and Titman (1989), Malkiel
(1995), Brown and Goetzmann (1995), and Wermers (1996) use similar data­
bases to study mutual funds. Grinblatt and Titman (1989) and Wermers (1996)
use quarterly "snapshots" of the mutual funds' underlying stock holdings since
1975 to estimate returns gross of transactions costs and expense ratios,
whereas my data set uses only the net returns. Malkiel (1995) uses quarterly
data from 1971 to 1991, obtained from Lipper Analytical Services. Although
Malkiel studies diversified equity funds, his data set includes about 100 fewer
funds each year than mine, raising the possibility of some selection bias in the
Lipper data set. (We both exclude balanced, sector, and international funds.)
Nonetheless, Malkiel's mean mutual fund return estimate from 1982 to 1990,
12.9 percent, is very close to the 13 percent that I find.
Brown and Goetzmann (1995) study a sample of mutual funds very similar
to mine, but calculate their returns differently. Their sample is from the
Wiesenberger Investment Companies annual volumes from 1976 to 1988. They
calculate annual returns from the changes in net asset value per share (NAV),
and income and capital gains distributions reported annually in Wiesenberger.
As Brown and Goetzmann acknowledge, their data suffer from some selection
bias, because the first years of new funds and last years of dead funds are
missing. In addition, because funds voluntarily report this information to
Wiesenberger, some funds may not report data in years of poor performance.
Working in the opposite direction, Brown and Goetzmann calculate return as
the sum of the percentage change in NAV (adjusted for capital gains distribu­
tions when available) and percentage income return. This procedure biases
their return estimates downward somewhat, since it ignores dividend rein­
vestment. My data set mitigates these problems because I obtain monthly total
returns from multiple sources and so have very few missing returns. In
addition, I obtain from ICDI the reinvestment NAVs for capital gains and
income distributions. Over the 1976 to 1988 period, Brown and Goetzmann
report a mean annual return estimate of 14.5 percent, very close to the 14.3
percent in my data set. By these calculations, selection bias accounts for at
least 20 basis points per year in Brown and Goetzmann's sample. It could
be somewhat more, however, due to the downward bias in their return
calculations.
II. Models of Performance Measurement
I employ two models of performance measurement: the Capital Asset Pricing
Model (CAPM) described in Sharpe (1964) and Lintner (1965), and my (Car­
hart (1995)) 4-factor model. This section briefly describes these models, and

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 61
evaluates their performance estimates on quantitatively-managed portfolios of
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), American Stock Exchange (Amex), and
Nasdaq stocks. For comparative purposes, this section also reports perfor­
mance estimates from Fama and French's (1993) 3-factor model.!
I construct my 4-factor model using Fama and French's (1993) 3-factor model
plus an additional factor capturing Jegadeesh and Titman's (1993) one-year
momentum anomaly.P The 4-factor model-is consistent with a model of market
equilibrium with four risk factors. Alternately, it may be interpreted as a
performance attribution model, where the coefficients and premia on the
factor-mimicking portfolios indicate the proportion of mean return attribut­
able to four elementary strategies: high versus low beta stocks, large versus
small market capitalization stocks, value versus growth stocks, and one-year
return momentum versus contrarian stocks. I employ the model to "explain"
returns, and leave risk interpretations to the reader.
I estimate performance relative to the CAPM, 3-factor, and 4-factor models
as
t = 1, 2, ... , T
t = 1, 2,
(1)
,T (2)
rit = exiT + biTRMRFt + si~MBt + hiTHMLt + PiTPR1YR t + eit
t = 1, 2, ... ,T (3)
where rit is the return on a portfolio in excess of the one-month T-bill return;
VWRF is the excess return on the CRSP value-weighted portfolio of all NYSE,
Amex, and Nasdaq stocks; RMRF is the excess return on a value-weighted
aggregate market proxy; and 5MB, HML, and PR1YR are returns on value­
weighted, zero-investment, factor-mimicking portfolios for size, book-to-mar­
ket equity, and one-year momentum in stock returns."
Summary statistics on the factor portfolios reported in Table II indicate that
the 4-factor model can explain considerable variation in returns. First, note the
relatively high variance of the 5MB, HML, and PR1YR zero-investment port­
folios and their low correlations with each other and the market proxies. This
suggests the 4-factor model can explain sizeable time-series variation. Second,
1 I find (Carhart (1995a)) that 3-factor performance estimates on mutual funds are more
precise, but generally not economically different from the CAPM. Estimates from the 4-factor
model frequently differ, however, due to significant loadings on the one-year momentum factor.
2 This is motivated by the 3-factor model's inability to explain cross-sectional variation in
momentum-sorted portfolio returns (Fama and French (1996).) Chan, Jegadeesh, and Lakonishok
(1996) suggest that the momentum anomaly is a market inefficiency due to slow reaction to
information. However, the effect is robust to time-periods (Jegadeesh and Titman (1993)) and
countries (Asness, Liew, and Stevens (1996)).
3 5MB and HML are obtained from Gene Fama and Ken French. I construct PR1YR as the
equal-weight average offirms with the highest 30 percent eleven-month returns lagged one month
minus the equal-weight average of firms with the lowest 30 percent eleven-month returns lagged
one month. The portfolios include all NYSE, Amex, and Nasdaq stocks and are re-formed monthly.

62 The Journal of Finance
Table II
Performance Measurement Model Summary Statistics, July 1963 to
December 1993
VWRF is the Center for Research in Security Prices (CR8P) value-weight stock index minus the
one-month T-bill return. RMRF is the excess return on Fama and French's (1993) market proxy.
5MB and HML are Fama and French's factor-mimicking portfolios for size and book-to-market
equity. PR1YR is a factor-mimicking portfolio for one-year return momentum.
Monthly Cross-Correlations
Factor Excess 8td t-stat for
Portfolio Return Dev Mean = 0 VWRF RMRF 5MB HML PR1YR
VWRF 0.44 4.39 1.93 1.00
RMRF 0.47 4.43 2.01 1.00 1.00
8MB 0.29 2.89 1.89 0.35 0.32 1.00
HML 0.46 2.59 3.42 -0.36 -0.37 0.10 1.00
PR1YR 0.82 3.49 4.46 0.01 0.01 -0.29 -0.16 1.00
the high mean returns on 5MB, HML,. and PR1YR suggest that these three
factors could account for much cross-sectional variation in the mean return on
stock portfolios. In addition, the low cross-correlations imply that multicol­
linearity does not substantially affect the estimated 4-factor model loadings.
In tests not reported, I find that the 4-factor model substantially improves on
the average pricing errors of the CAPM and the 3-factor model.s I estimate
pricing errors on 27 quantitatively-managed portfolios of stocks from Carhart,
Krail, Stevens, and Welch (1996), where the portfolios are formed on the
market value of equity, book-to-market equity and trailing eleven-month re­
turn lagged one month. Not surprisingly, the 3-factor model improves on the
average pricing errors from the CAPM, since it includes both size and book­
to-market equity factors. However, the 3-factor model errors are strongly
negative for last year's loser stock portfolios and strongly positive for last
year's winner stock portfolios. In contrast, the 4-factor model noticeably re­
duces the average pricing errors relative to both the CAPM and the 3-factor
model. For comparative purposes, the mean absolute errors from the CAPM,
3~factor, and 4-factor models are 0.35 percent, 0.31 percent, and 0.14 percent
per month, respectively. In addition, the 4-factor model eliminates almost all
of the patterns in pricing errors, indicating that it well describes the cross­
sectional variation in average stock returns.
III. Persistence in One-Year Return-Sorted Mutual Fund Portfolios
A. Common-Factor Explanations of One-Year Mutual Fund Persistence
In this section, I form portfolios of mutual funds on lagged one-year returns
and estimate performance on the resulting portfolios, thus replicating the
4 These results are not included for sake of brevity, but are available from the author upon
request.

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 63
methodology of Hendricks, Patel, and Zeckhauser (1993). On January 1 ofeach
year, I form ten equal-weighted portfolios of mutual funds, using reported
returns. Reported returns are net of all operating expenses (expense ratios)
and security-level transaction costs, but do not include sales charges. I hold the
portfolios for one year, then re-form them. This yields a time series of monthly
returns on each decile portfolio from 1963 to 1993. Funds that disappear
during the course of the year are included in the equal-weighted average until
they disappear, then the portfolio weights are readjusted appropriately. For
added detail, I subdivide the top and bottom portfolios into thirds.
The portfolios of mutual funds sorted on one-year past returns demonstrate
strong variation in mean return, as shown in Table III. The post-formation
monthly excess returns on the decile portfolios decrease nearly monotonically
in portfolio rank, and indicate a sizeable annualized spread of approximately
8 percent. (This spread is 24 percent in the ranking year.) The subdivided
extreme portfolios exhibit even larger return spreads. Portfolio lA, which
contains the top thirtieth offunds (14 funds on average), outperforms portfolio
10C, the bottom thirtieth of funds, by 1 percent per month. Cross-sectional
variation in return is considerably larger among the previous year's worst
performing funds than the previous year's best funds. The subportfolios of the
top decile show a modest spread of 12 basis points per month (63 to 75), but the
spread in the bottom decile is a substantial 50 basis points. Further, the
bottom thirtieth ofthe previous year's funds seem to demonstrate anomalously
poor returns. In the year after their bottom-decile ranking, these funds show
high variance and still underperform T-bills by 25 basis points per month.
The CAPM does not explain the relative returns on these portfolios. The
CAPM betas on the top and bottom deciles and subdeciles are virtually iden­
tical, so the CAPM alphas reproduce as much dispersion as simple returns. In
addition, the performance estimates from the CAPM indicate sizeable positive
abnormal returns of about 22 basis points per month (2.6 percent per year) for
the previous year's top-decile funds, and even larger negative abnormal re­
turns of about 45 basis points per month (5.4 percent per year) for the bottom­
decile funds. If the CAPM correctly measures risk, both the best and worst
mutual funds possess differential information, yet the worst funds appear to
use this information perversely to reduce performance.
In contrast to the CAPM, the 4-factor model explains most of the spread and
pattern in these portfolios, with sensitivities to the size (8MB) and momentum
(PR1YR) factors accounting for most of the explanation. The top decile portfo­
lios appear to hold more small stocks than the bottom deciles. More important,
however, is the pronounced pattern in the funds' PR1YR coefficients. The
returns on the top decile funds are strongly, positively correlated with the
one-year momentum factor, while the returns in the bottom decile are strongly,
negatively correlated with the factor. Of the 67-basis-point spread in mean
monthly return between deciles 1 and 10, the momentum factor explains 31
basis points, or almost half. Further, of the 28-basis-point spread in monthly
return not explained by the 4-factor model, the spread between the ninth and
tenth deciles accounts for 20 basis points. Except for the relative underperfor-



On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 65
mance by last year's worst performing funds, the 4-factor model accounts for
almost all of the cross-sectional variation in expected return on portfolios of
mutual funds sorted on lagged one-year return.
I also perform the Spearman nonparametric test on the rank ordering of
performance measures. Here the null hypothesis is that the performance
measures are randomly ordered. The Spearman test falls in the 5.7 percent
fractile on the CAPM alphas and the 13.2 percent fractile on the 4-factor
alphas. In both cases, random rank-ordering cannot be rejected. However,
since the Spearman test treats the ordering of each decile portfolio equally, it
lacks power against the hypothesis that predictability in performance is con­
centrated in the tails of the distribution of mutual fund returns."
B. Characteristics of the Mutual Fund Portfolios
I now examine whether any of the remaining short-term persistence in
mutual fund returns is related to heterogeneity in the average characteristics
of the mutual funds in each decile portfolio. In each year, I calculate a
cross-sectional average for each decile portfolio of fund age, total net assets
(TNA), expense ratio, turnover (Mturn), and maximum load fees.
The average portfolio characteristics reported in Table IV indicate that
expenses and turnover are related to performance. Decile 10 particularly
stands out with higher than average expenses and turnover. The 70-basis­
point difference in expense ratios between deciles 9 and 10 explains about six
of the 20-basis-point spread between monthly 4-factor alphas on these portfo­
lios. It does not appear that fund age, size, or load fees can explain the large
spread in performance on these portfolios, since these characteristics are very
similar for the top and bottom deciles.
Differences in portfolio turnover do not explain a sizeable portion of the
remaining portfolio nine-ten spread in alphas. If funds pay 1 percent in costs
per round-trip transaction, the difference in trading frequency between the
ninth and tenth deciles accounts for only 0.5 basis points of the spread in
4-factor alphas. After accounting for expense ratios and turnover, tests on the
difference between alphas on deciles 9 and 10 yield t-statistics of 2.69 relative
to the CAPM, and 2.19 relative to the 4-factor model. Thus, expense ratios and
5 I also test the robustness of these findings to time period, performance measurement bench­
mark, and sorting procedure. In these tests, not reported but available from the author upon
request, I divide the complete sample into three equal subperiods, with insignificant effects on the
results. I also estimate performance on the mutual fund portfolios using the alternative perfor­
mance measures of Ferson and Schadt (1996), Chen and Knez (1995), and Carhart, Krail, Stevens,
and Welch (1996). Ferson and Schadt model time-variation in factor risk loadings as linear
functions of instrumental variables. The Chen and Knez nonparametric method and the linear
factor pricing kernel approach in Carhart et al. are cross-section estimators of the stochastic
discount factor. Carhart et al. also permit time-variation in model parameters. The estimates from
these methods do not change any inferences. As a final robustness check, I perform tests on the
investment objective categories separately (aggressive growth, long-term growth, and growth-and­
income) and find that the persistence evidence is virtually as strong in each objective category as
the diversified equity universe as a whole.

66 The Journal of Finance
Table IV
Characteristics of the Portfolios of Mutual Funds Formed on Lagged
I·Year Return
Mutual funds are sorted annually from 1963 to 1993 into equal-weight decile portfolios based on
lagged one-year return. Funds with the. highest past one-year return comprise decile 1, and funds
with the lowest comprise decile 10. Deciles 1 and 10 are further subdivided into thirds on the same
measure. The values in the table represent the time-series averages of annual cross-sectional
averages of the funds in each portfolio. TNA is total net assets. Expense ratio is management,
administrative, and 12b-1 expenses divided by average TNA. Mturn is modified turnover and
represents reported turnover plus 0.5 times the percentage change in portfolio TNA adjusted for
investment returns and mergers. Maximum load is the sum of maximum front-end, back-end, and
deferred sales charges.
Average Annual Portfolio Attributes
Age TNA($ Expense Maximum
Portfolio (years) millions) Ratio Mturn Load
1A 11.7 110.0 1.38 116.2 3.93
1B 14.0 148.8 1.16 86.9 3.99
1C 16.5 127.4 1.11 75.8 4.62
1 (high) 14.1 128.7 1.22 92.9 4.18
2 16.6 190.8 1.08 75.3 4.97
3 17.3 194.3 1.10 76.3 4.72
4 17.6 183.7 1.11 67.2 4.82
5 18.3 185.9 1.09 68.4 4.71
6 17.5 199.1 1.15 65.8 4.33
7 18.3 169.7 1.14 62.2 4.50
8 17.5 149.3 1.13 65.3 4.76
9 15.8 145.6 1.22 75.1 4.59
10 (low) 13.6 77.1 1.92 81.4 4.38
lOA 14.5 91.9 1.55 76.8 4.55
lOB 14.4 87.4 1.71 76.7 4.57
10C 11.9 52.0 2.51 88.8 4.02
turnover alone cannot explain the anomalous negative abnormal performance
by the worst-return decile of funds. This conclusion is even stronger when
considering portfolio 10C, the bottom thirtieth of funds.
C. Characteristics of Individual Mutual Funds
Mutual fund managers claim that expenses and turnover do not reduce
performance, since investors are paying for the quality of the manager's
information, and because managers trade only to increase expected returns net
of transactions costs. Thus, expenses and turnover should not have a direct
negative effect on performance, as implied in the previous section, but rather
a neutral or positive effect. I evaluate this claim by directly measuring the
marginal effect of these and other variables on abnormal performance.
In each month, I estimate the cross-section regression:
i = 1, ... ,N, t = 1, ... , T (4)

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 67
where OI.it is an individual fund performance estimate and Xit is a fund charac­
teristic. As in Fama and MacBeth (1973), I estimate the cross-sectional rela­
tion each month, then average the coefficient estimates across the complete
sample period. This yields 330 cross-sectional regressions which average 350
observations each for a combined sample of about 116,000 observations. To
mitigate look-ahead bias, I estimate OI.it as a one-month abnormal return from
the 4-factor model, where the 4-factor model loadings are estimated over the
prior three years:
I estimate one-month alphas each month on every fund, using a minimum of
30 observations, then estimate the cross-section relation of equation (4) using
the Fama-MacBeth estimator.
The explanatory variables in equation (4) are expense ratio, turnover
(Mturn), In(TNA), and maximum load fees. Since I intend to explain perfor­
mance, not predict it, I measure expense ratio and turnover contemporaneous
with return. TNA is lagged one year to avoid spurious correlation (Granger and
Newbold, 1974). Load fees are lagged one year to avoid the confounding
possibility that funds change these fees in response to performance. I construct
two additional explanatory variables from turnover to separate the effects of
buy and sell trading. The latter two are
Buy Turnover., = Turnover., + maxtMflow.; 0)
and
Sell Turnover., = Turnover., - minrMflow.; 0)
where Mflow., measures the percentage change in TNA adjusted for invest­
ment returns and mergers. Because I find expense ratios are strongly related
to the other variables, I estimate the cross-section regression for TNA, load,
and the turnover measures using returns after adding back expense ratios.
The results in Table V indicate a strong relation between performance and
size, expense ratios, turnover, and load fees. The resulting relation between
performance and expense ratios and modified turnover suggest that mutual
funds, on average, do not recoup their investment costs through higher re­
turns. The -1.54 coefficient on expense ratio implies that for every 100-basis­
point increase in expense ratios, annual abnormal return drops by about 154
basis points. The turnover coefficient of -0.95 suggests that for every 100­
basis-point increase in turnover, annual abnormal return drops by about 95
basis points. We can interpret the turnover coefficient as a measure of the net
costs of trading, since it reveals the marginal performance effect of a small
change in turnover. Thus, the turnover estimate implies transactions costs of
95 basis points per round-trip transaction. When partitioned into buy turnover

68 The Journal of Finance
Table V
Fama-MacBeth (1973) Cross-Sectional Regressions
Estimated univariate cross-sectional regressions for each month from July 1966 to December 1993
across all funds in the sample at that time. The dependent variable is the monthly residual from
the 4-factor model, where the factor loadings are estimated on the prior 3 years of monthly returns.
The independent variables are expense ratio, turnover, the natural log of TNA, maximum load
fees, and measures of buy and sell turnover. Expense ratio is management, administrative, and
12b-1 expenses divided by average TNA. TNA is total net assets. Turnover represents reported
turnover plus 0.5 times the percentage change in portfolio TNA adj\1~ted for investment returns
and mergers. Maximum load is the sum of maximum front-end, back-end and deferred sales
charges. Buy turnover is reported turnover plus the maximum of 0 and the percentage change in
TNA adjusted for investment returns and mergers. Sell turnover is reported turnover minus the
minimum of 0 and the adjusted percentage change in TNA. Expense ratio and the turnover
measures are divided by 12 and measured contemporaneous with the dependent variable. The
reported estimates are time-series averages of monthly cross-sectional regression slope estimates
as in Fama and MacBeth (1973). The t-statistics are on the time-series means of the coefficients.
The regressions on TNA, maximum load, and the turnover measures use the residuals from
reported returns after adding back expense ratios.
Independent Variables
(Coefficients x 100)
Expense ratio (t)
Turnover (t) (Mturn)
In TNA (t-I)
Maximum Load (t-L)
Buy turnover (t)
Sell turnover (t)
Estimate
-1.54
-0.95
-0.05
-0.11
-0.43
-1.26
t-statistic
(-5.99)
(-2.36)
(-0.66)
(-3.55)
(-1.16)
(-3.00)
and sell turnover, the estimates imply a 21.5 basis point cost for (one-way) buy
trades and a 63 basis point cost for sell trades.
TNA is insignificantly related to the cross-section of performance estimates,
but maximum load fees are significantly negatively related to performance.
The negative slope on load fees contradicts the oft-cited claim by load funds
that their managers are more skilled and investment expenses lower than
no-load funds. Although the coefficient appears small, it implies that annual
. abnormal returns are reduced by about 11 basis points for every 100 basis
point increase in load fees. For a load fund with the average total sales charges
of 7.3 percent, the reduction in annual return is 79 basis points. To test the
sensitivity of this result to the poor-performing outliers, I repeat the analysis
after removing the funds in the bottom two deciles. The results (not reported)
are virtually unchanged. The underperformance of load funds is probably
partially explained by higher total transactions costs, since load funds exhibit
higher turnover than no-load funds (Carhart (1995a).)
D. Cross-Sectional Variation in Transaction Costs
Thus far, sensitivity to common factors and persistence in expense ratios
explain most of the persistence in mutual fund performance. In addition, the
cross-section tests indicate that turnover reduces performance for the average

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 69
fund. However, since turnover ratios on the worst-performing funds are only
slightly higher than on the average fund, transaction costs can only explain the
anomalous underperformance of the worst funds if these funds also have
higher costs per transaction. This section evaluates whether estimates of costs
per transaction explain any of the remaining abnormal performance not fully
accounted for by the 4-factor model, expense ratios, and turnover.
I find that transaction costs describe most of the unexplained mutual fund
performance. From the 4-factor model alphas, expense ratios, and turnover
ratios, I assume market efficiency to infer the cost per transaction necessary to
zero out the gross 4-factor alpha. The average fund's alpha of -0.15 percent,
expense ratio of 1.14 percent, and turnover of 77.4 percent imply a cost of 85
basis points per round-trip transaction. The previously reported cross-section
estimate of round-trip transactions cost is 95 basis points, with a standard
error of 40 basis points. Thus, for the average fund, the implied transactions
cost lies well within 0.25 standard errors of the estimated cost.
In addition to explaining performance on the average fund, transaction costs
also explain much of the cross-sectional variation in return on the portfolios
sorted on lagged one-year return. I sort the sample into quintiles to create
subsamples large enough to yield reliable cross-section estimates. After re­
peating my calculations and cross-section estimates, I find that the implied
transaction costs are very near to their cross-section estimates. Only in one
quintile (quintile 2) is the estimated round-trip transactions cost more than
two standard errors from implied. Although the quintile sort is coarse, cross­
sectional variation in costs per transaction explains the return spread on these
portfolios unrelated to the 4-factor model and expense ratios.
However, the estimated round-trip transaction costs in finer sorts of the
bottom quintile are not large enough to explain its underperformance. In order
to estimate transaction costs on the relatively small samples of the decile or
subdecile portfolios, I pool the cross-section and time-series observations in the
estimation. The estimated round-trip transaction costs on decile 10 undershoot
the implied costs of 354 basis points by more than four standard errors. The
implied costs on the three subportfolios of decile 10 suggest that portfolios lOB
and 10C drive this unusually high implied transaction cost estimate. To fully
explain 4-factor model abnormal performance, portfolio lOB requires a 356­
basis-point round-trip cost, and 10C requires a 582-basis-point cost. At seven
and 252 basis points, however, the cross-section estimates for these portfolios
are considerably less than implied. While their pattern suggests that relative
transaction costs play an important role in the cross-section of mutual fund
performance, the magnitude of the cross-section estimates leaves unexplained
much of the abnormal return in the worst-return mutual funds.
For robustness, I employ a second method for inferring cross-sectional vari­
ation in transaction costs that exploits the time-series properties of the mutual
fund portfolios. Since round-trip transactions costs should decrease in the
trading liquidity of the underlying securities, mutual funds holding illiquid
securities should be correlated with a factor-mimicking portfolio for trading
liquidity. Assuming that the time-series properties of illiquid stocks differ from

70 The Journal of Finance
liquid stocks, a portfolio long in illiquid stocks and short in liquid stocks should
capture these patterns.
The liquidity factor-mimicking portfolio, VLMH, is the spread between re­
turns on low- and high-trading-volume stocks orthogonalized to the 4-factor
model." I find that the VLMH-Ioading estimates on mutual fund portfolios are
strongly related to performance. The best one-year-return portfolios load sig­
nificantly and negatively on VLMH, indicating relatively more liquid stocks.
The worst portfolios load significantly and positively, indicating relatively
more illiquid stocks. Since illiquid stocks are more costly to trade, the VLMH
loadings suggest that the costs per transaction are higher for the lower-past­
return portfolios. Although these results do not measure the incremental cost
of trading illiquid stocks, they do suggest that higher transaction costs might
explain the strong underperformance of the worst funds.
Overall, my results suggest that short-run mutual fund returns persist
strongly, and that most of the persistence is explained by common-factor
sensitivities, expenses, and transaction costs. The net gain in returns from
buying the decile of past winners and selling the decile oflosers is 8 percent per
year. I explain 4.6 percent with size, book-to-market and one-year momentum
in stock returns; 0.7 percent with expense ratios; and 1 percent with transac­
tion costs. However, of the 5.4 percent spread between deciles 1 and 9, the
4-factor model explains 4.4 percent and expense ratios and transaction costs
explain 0.9 percent, leaving only 0.1 percent annual spread unexplained.
Underperforming by twice its expense ratio and estimated transaction costs,
the performance on the lowest decile is still anomalous after these explana­
tions. Thus, the cross-section of average mutual fund returns not explained by
the variables is almost entirely concentrated in the spread between the bottom
two past-returns sorted decile portfolios.
IV. Interpreting the Performance on Past-Winner Mutual Funds
Previous sections demonstrated strong patterns in 4-factor model coeffi­
cients on portfolios of mutual funds sorted on one-year return. This finding
suggests sorting funds on one-year return groups with similar time-series
properties, at least over the period while they are ranked in a particular decile.
There are at least two possible explanations for this groupwise commonality.
First, the funds in each portfolio might be relatively stable with consistent
strategies through time. Second, the funds in each portfolio might be unstable
through time, but the funds in a particular decile might hold similar securities
while they are in that portfolio. The implications of these two explanations
differ drastically, since the former suggests that managers follow consistent
strategies that determine their expected returns, whereas the latter is consis­
tent with managers choosing securities randomly but holding them for one to
two years.
6 Details on the construction of the VLMH portfolio, and the specific estimates discussed in this
section, are available from the author upon request.

SubsequentRanking
On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance
Initial Ranking
71
25%
20%
J:a
15% :s
10% J
1:$
5% !'";f
0%
Figure 1. Contingency table of initial and subsequent one-year performance rankings.
In each calendar year from 1962 to 1992, funds are ranked into decile portfolios based on one-year
gross return. These initial decile rankings are paired with the fund's subsequent one-year gross
return ranking. Funds that do not survive the complete subsequent year are placed in a separate
category for dead funds. The bars in cell (j, i) represent the conditional probability of achieving a
subsequent ranking of decile j (or dying) given an initial ranking of decile i, I estimate gross
returns by adding back expense ratios to reported returns.
A. Consistency in Ranking
I test the consistency in fund ranking by constructing a contingency table of
initial and subsequent one-year mutual fund rankings. I use simple returns
gross of expense ratios to remove the predictable expense element in reported
returns. The contingency table is displayed in Figure 1. The bars for initial
rank i and subsequent rank} represent Pr (rank) next year Irank i last year).
From the figure, it is apparent that winners are somewhat more likely to
remain winners, and losers are more likely to either remain losers or perish.
However, the funds in the top decile differ substantially each year, with more
than 80 percent annual turnover in composition. In addition, last year's win­
ners frequently become next year's losers and vice versa, which is consistent
with gambling behavior by mutual funds. Further, the probability of disap­
pearing from the database decreases monotonically in the previous-year's
return. Thus, while the ranks of a few of the top and many of the bottom funds
persist, the year-to-year rankings on most funds appear largely random.


72 The Journal of Finance
0.6% ,--------------------------------.,
Decile1
0.0%
'i? 0.4%
§
~
J0.2%
f
I
Decile10
....
-0.2% L-__--'---- -----"- --'---- -----"- ---l.- ---.l __------l
FormationYear + 1 Year + 2 Years + 3 Years +4 Years +5 Years
Figure 2. Post-formation returns on portfolios of mutual funds sorted on lagged one­
year return. In each calendar year from 1962 to 1987, funds are ranked into equal-weight decile
portfolios based on one-year return. The lines in the graph represent the excess returns on the
decile portfolios in the year subsequent to initial ranking (the "formation" year) and in each of the
next five years after formation. Funds with the highest one-year return comprise decile 1 and
funds with the lowest comprise decile 10. The portfolios are equally weighted each month, so the
weights are readjusted whenever a fund disappears from the sample.
B. Returns on the Portfolios of Mutual Funds after Ranking
The large number of top-decile funds that revert to lower ranks suggests that
the relatively high returns on the funds in this portfolio are short-lived. Figure
2 presents the average returns of the funds in each decile portfolio in each of
the five years after their original formation. From the figure, it is clear that
one-year performance persistence is mostly eliminated after one year. Except
for the persistent underperformance by the worst funds, mean returns and
abnormal performance across deciles do not differ statistically significantly
after one year.
Furthermore, the returns on the top and bottom decile funds are not nearly
so strongly related to the one-year momentum effect in stock returns outside of
the ranking and formation years. In the year before ranking, funds that will
comprise decile 1 have a PRlYR loading ofO.lB, and funds that will comprise
decile 10 have a PRI YR loading indistinguishable from zero. In the year after
portfolio formation, decile 1 funds have a PRIYR loading of only 0.14, and
decile 10 funds have a PRIYR loading of 0.04. These coefficients contrast

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 73
sharply with the top- and bottom-decile .PR1YR loadings in the portfolio
formation year of 0.29 and -0.09. (See Table III.)
C. Portfolios Sorted on PRIYR Loadings
The results from the previous two sections suggest that most top-ranked
mutual funds do not maintain their high relative returns. However, funds that
follow a momentum strategy in stocks might consistently earn above-average
returns, even if their 4-factor model performance is not abnormal. To test
whether momentum managers earn consistently higher returns, I sort mutual
funds into portfolios on their 4-factor model PR1YR loadings and find that
one-year momentum funds do not earn substantially higher returns than
contrarian funds." Relative to the 4-factor model, in fact, one-year momentum
funds underperform one-year contrarian funds. Momentum funds also have
high turnover and expense ratios, suggesting that most of the gains from
following the one-year momentum strategy are consumed by higher expenses
and transaction costs. This result contrasts with Wermers (1996), who finds
that momentum funds outperform on a gross performance basis.
My results suggest that Jegadeesh and Titman's (1993) spread in mean
return among last-year's winning and losing stocks is not an investable strat­
egy at the individual security level. My results also suggest that there is a
simple explanation for the strong pattern in PR1YR loadings on portfolios
sorted on lagged one-year returns: These mutual funds don't follow the mo­
mentum strategy, but are funds that accidentally end up holding last year's
winners. Since the returns on these stocks are above average in the ensuing
year, if these funds simply hold their winning stocks, they will enjoy higher
one-year expected returns and incur no additional transaction costs for this
portfolio. With so many mutual funds, it does not seem unlikely that some
funds will be holding many of last year's winning stocks simply by chance.
D. Evidence that PRIYR and VLMH Loadings Capture Momentum and
Trading Volume
Daniel and Titman (1997) suggest that firms' actual size and book-to-market
equity contain more explanatory power for mean returns than do time-series
estimates of factor loadings. Their results suggest that generalizations about
the securities held or strategies followed by mutual funds based on time-series
factor loadings might be misleading. Fama and French (1993) find that 5MB
and HML loadings are related to the average market capitalization and book­
to-market equity on their test portfolios. Thus, I examine the information
content of PR1YR and VLMH loadings by comparing the factor loadings with
direct measures of momentum and trading liquidity. If the factor loadings
capture the liquidity and momentum of these quantitatively-managed portfo­
lios, they should strongly correlate with direct measures of liquidity and
momentum.
7 This material is available from the author upon request.

74 The Journal of Finance
To test this hypothesis, I construct two sets of25 value-weighted stock portfolios
by sorting all NYSE, AMEX,and Nasdaq stocks first on size, and then on one-year
momentum or trading volume. The patterns in VLMH loadings on the size­
trading volume portfolios support my previous generalizations about the relative
liquidity of stocks held by mutual funds," Within each size quintile, the VLMH
loadings decrease in the dollar volume of trading. Since VLMH is long in low­
trading-volume stocks and short in high-volume stocks, I expect this inverse
relation between trading volume and VLMH loading. Further, VLMH is con­
structed orthogonally to the size factor, so the VLMH loading does not reveal the
magnitude of trading volume, only the magnitude of trading relative to firm size.
After subtracting the average trading volume for each size quintile, the correla­
tion between trading volume and VLMH coefficients is 0.74.
I also find that PRIYR loadings are informative on the momentum of stocks
in each portfolio. On the size-momentum portfolios, the PRIYR loadings are
monotonic in momentum within every size quintile, and the overall correlation
between momentum and factor loadings is 0.95. Thus, covariance with the
PRIYR factor appears to be a relatively good indication of the momentum of
the underlying stocks in a portfolio.
v. Longer-Term Persistence in Mutual Fund Portfolios
A. Two- to Five-Year-Return Sorted Portfolios
Contrary to the suggestions of Hendricks, Patel, and Zeckhauser (1993),
mutual fund manager stock-picking skill is not required to explain the one­
year persistence in mutual fund returns. However, if manager skill exists, a
one-year return is probably a noisy measure. To reduce the noise in past­
performance rankings, I form portfolios of mutual funds on lagged two- to
five-year returns. I then repeat my earlier analyses to examine how much
cross-sectional variation in mean return can be explained by the 4-factor
model, expense ratios, and transaction costs. Figure 3 summarizes these and
the results from the one-year past-return sorted portfolios.
Using longer intervals of past returns does not reveal more information
about expected future mutual fund return or 4-factor performance. While the
4-factor model explains more than half the spread in return on the one-year­
return portfolios, it explains a smaller fraction of return spread in the two- to
four-year portfolios, and none of the spread in the five-year portfolios. It turns
out that the 4-factor model explains less of the return spread because of a
less-pronounced pattern in PRIYR loadings and a more pronounced pattern in
HML loadings. Past-winner mutual funds load negatively on HML and posi­
tively on PRI YR, while past-loser mutual funds do not load significantly on
either factor. Expense ratios explain a similar return spread across sorting
intervals, approximately 1 percent per year. Estimates of total transaction
costs from turnover and cross-section estimates of costs per transaction ex-
8 This material is available from the author upon request.

On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance 75
6%
10% r----------------------------------,
Spre