 
 
                                 
 
 
Value and Momentum Everywhere
Asness, Clifford S.; Moskowitz, Tobias; Heje Pedersen, Lasse
Document Version
Accepted author manuscript
Published in:
Journal of Finance
DOI:
10.1111/jofi.12021
Publication date:
2013
License
Other
Citation for published version (APA):
Asness, C. S., Moskowitz, T., & Heje Pedersen, L. (2013). Value and Momentum Everywhere. Journal of
Finance, 68(3), 929-985. https://doi.org/10.1111/jofi.12021
Link to publication in CBS Research Portal
General rights
Copyright and moral rights for the publications made accessible in the public portal are retained by the authors and/or other copyright owners
and it is a condition of accessing publications that users recognise and abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights.
Take down policy
If you believe that this document breaches copyright please contact us (research.lib@cbs.dk) providing details, and we will remove access to
the work immediately and investigate your claim.
Download date: 30. Jul. 2026

 
 
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
Value and Momentum Everywhere 
Clifford S. Asness, Tobias J. Moskowitz, and Lasse Heje Pedersen 
Journal article (Post print version) 
 
 
 
 
 
Asness, CS, Moskowitz, T & Heje This is the peer reviewed version of the following article 
Pedersen, L 2013, 'Value and Momentum Everywhere' Journal of Finance, vol 68, nr. 3, s. 929-
985., 10.1111/jofi.12021 which has been published in final form at . 
This article may be used for non-commercial purposes in accordance with Wiley Terms and 
Conditions for Self-Archiving. 
 
 
 
 
 
Uploaded to Research@CBS: March 2016 
 
 

Value and Momentum Everywhere 
Cli
fford S. Asness, Tobias J. Moskowitz, and Lasse Heje Pedersen∗ 
Current Version: June 2012 
Abs
tract 
We study the returns to value and momentum strategies jointly across eight diverse markets and asset 
classes. Finding consistent value and momentum premia in every asset class, we further find strong 
common factor structure among their returns. V alue and momentum are more positively correlated 
across asset classes than passive exposures to the asset classes  themselves.  However, value and 
momentum are negatively correlated both within and a cross asset classes. Our results indicate the 
presence of common global risks that we characterize with a three factor model . G lobal funding 
liquidity risk is a partial source of these patterns, which are identifiable only when examining value 
and momentum  simultaneously across markets .  Our findings  present a challenge to existing 
behavioral, institutional, and rational asset pricing theories that largely focus on U.S. equities. 
∗Asness is at AQR Capital Management. Moskowitz is at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and NBER  and is a consultant to AQR Capital. Pedersen is at the New York University Stern School of Business, 
Copenhagen 
Business School, AQR, CEPR, FRIC, and NBER. We thank Aaron Brown, John Cochrane, Kent 
Daniel, 
Gene Fama, Kenneth French, Cam Harvey (the editor), Ronen Israel, Robert Krail, John Liew, Harry 
Mamaysky, Michael Mendelson, Stefan Nagel, Lars Nielsen, Otto Van Hemert, Jeff Wurgler, and an anonymous 
referee 
for helpful comments, as well as seminar participants at the University of Chicago, Princeton University, Duke 
University, 
the Danish Society of Financial Analysts with Henrik Amilon and Asbjørn Trolle as discussants, and the 
NBER Summer Institute Asset Pricing Meetings with Kent Daniel as a discussant.  We also thank Radhika Gupta, 
Kelvin 
Hu, Sarah Jiang, Adam Klein, Ari Levine, Len Lorilla, Wes McKinney, and Karthik Sridharan for research 
assistance.  AQR Capital invests in, among other things, value and momentum strategies.  The views expressed 
here are those of the authors and not necessarily those of an y affiliated institution.  

Two of the most studied capital market phenomena are the relation between an asset’s return and the 
ratio of its “long-run” (or book) value relative to its current market value, termed the “ value” effect, 
and the relation between an asset’s return and its recent relative performance history, termed the 
“momentum” effect.  The returns to value and momentum strategies have become central to the 
market efficiency debate and the focal points of asset pricing studies, generating numerous 
competing theories for their existence. We offer new insights into these two market anomalies by 
examining their returns jointly  across eight diverse markets and asset classes.  Chiefly, we find 
significant return premia to value and momentum in every  asset class and strong co-movement of 
their returns across asset classes , both of which challenge existing theories for their existence. We 
provide a simple three factor model that captures the global returns across asset classes, the Fama -
French U.S. stock portfolios, and a set of hedge fund indices. 
The literature on market anomalies predominantly focuses on U.S. individual equities, and often 
examines value or momentum separately. In the rare case where value and momentum are studied 
outside of U.S. equities, they are also typically studied in isolation—separate from each other and 
separate from other markets. We uncover unique evidence and features of value and momentum by 
examining them jointly across eight different markets and asset classes (individual stocks in the U.S., 
U.K., Europe, and Japan, country equity index futures, government bonds, currencies, and
commodity futures).
1  Although some of these markets have been analyzed in isolation, our joint
approach provides unique evidence on several key and novel questions about these pervasive market
phenomena.
Specifically, how much variation exists  in value and momentum premia  across markets and 
asset classes?  How correlated are value and momentum returns across these diverse markets and 
asset classes with different geographies, structures, investor types, and securities?  What are the 
economic drivers of value and momentum premia and their correlation structure? What is a natural 
benchmark model for portfolios of global securities across different asset classes?  
1Early evidence on U.S. equit ies finds value stocks on average outperform growth stocks (Stattman (1980), Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985), and Fama and French (1992)) and stocks with high positive momentum (high 
6-12 month past returns) outperform sto cks with low momentum, ( Jegadeesh and Titman (1993)  and  Asness 
(1994)). Similar effects are found in other equity markets (Fama and French (1998), Rouwenhorst (1998), Liew and 
Vassalou (2000), Griffin, Ji, and Martin (2003), Chui, Wei, and Titman (201 0)), and in country equity indices 
(Asness, Liew, and Stevens (1997) and  Bhojraj and Swaminathan (2006)). Momentum is also foun d in currencies 
(Shleifer and Summers  (1990), Kho (1 996), and LeBaron (1999)) and commodities (Erb  and Harvey (2 006) and 
Gorton, Hayashi, and Rouwenhorst (2008)).
1  

 2 
We find consistent and ubiquitous evidence of value and momentum return premia across all the 
markets we study , including value and momentum  in government bonds and value effects in 
currencies and commodities, which are all novel to the literature.  Our broader set of portfolios 
generates much larger cross-sectional dispersion in average returns than those from U.S. stocks only, 
providing a richer set of asset returns that any asset pricing model should seek to explain.  Most 
strikingly, we discover significant co- movement in value and momentum strategies across diverse 
asset classes. Value strategies are positively correlated with other value strategies across otherwise 
unrelated markets, and momentum strategies are positively correlated with other momentum 
strategies globally.  However, value and momentum are negatively correlated wi th each other within 
and across asset classes. 
The striking co-movement pattern across asset classes is one of our central findings and suggests 
the presence of common global factors related to value and momentum.  This common risk structure 
implies a host  of results we investigate further.  For example, using a simple three factor model, 
consisting of a global market index, a zero cost value strategy applied across all asset classes, and a 
zero cost momentum strategy across all assets, we capture the co-movement and the cross section of 
average returns both globally across asset classes and locally within an asset class.  We further show 
that the global three factor model captures well the returns to the Fama and French U.S. stock 
portfolios as well as a  set of hedge fund indices.  Our use of a simple three factor model in pricing a 
variety of assets globally is motivated by finance research and practice becoming increasingly global 
and the desire to have a single model that describes returns across asset  classes rather than 
specialized models for each market.   We show that separate factors for value and momentum best 
explain the data, rather than a single factor, since both strategies produce positive returns on average 
yet are negatively correlated.
2     
We then i nvestigate the source of this common global factor structure.  We  find only modest 
links to macroeconomic variables , such as business cycle, consumption, and default risk.  However, 
we find significant evidence that liquidity risk is negatively related to value and positively related to 
momentum globally across asset classes .  Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) and Sadka (2006) find that 
measures of liquidity risk are positively related to momentum in U.S. individual stocks.  We show 
that this link is also present in other markets and asset classes and show that value returns are 
significantly negatively related to liquidity risk globally, implying that part of the negative 
correlation between value and momentum is driven by opposite signed exposure to liquidity risk.  
2 A single factor would require significant time variation in betas and/or risk premia to accommodate these facts.  
We remain agnostic as to whether our factors capture such dynamics or represent separate unconditional factors. 

 3 
Separating market from funding liquidity (see Brunnermeier and Pedersen (2009)) we further find 
that the primary link between value and momentum returns comes from funding risk, whose 
importance has increased over time, particularly after the funding crisis of 1998.  Importantly, these 
results cannot be detected by examining a single market in isolation .  The statistical power gained by 
looking across many markets at once — a unique feature of our analysis —allows these factor 
exposures to be revealed.   
In terms of economic magnitudes, however, liquidity risk can only explain a small fraction of 
value and momentum return premia and co-movement .  While liquidity risk may partly explain the 
positive risk premium associated with momentum, because value loads negatively on liquidity risk, 
the positive premium associated with value becomes an even deeper puzzle.  Moreover, a simple 
equal weighted combination of value and momentum  is immune to liquidity risk and generates 
substantial abnormal returns.  Hence, funding liquidity risk can only provide a partial and incomplete 
explanation for momentum , but cannot explain the value premium or the value and momentum 
combination premium. 
The evidence we uncover aims to shed light on explanations for the existence of value and  
momentum premia.  For example, strong correlation structure among these strategies in otherwise 
unrelated asset classes may indicate the presence of common global risk factors for which value and 
momentum premia provide compensation. Conversely, such correlation structure is not a prediction 
of existing behavioral models (e.g., Daniel, Hirshleifer, and Subrahmanyam (1998), Barberis, 
Shleifer, and Vishny (1998), and Hong and Stein (1999)).  
In addition to assuaging data mining concerns, evidence of consiste nt value and momentum 
premia across diverse asset classes may be difficult to reconcile under rational asset pricing theories 
that rely on firm investment risk or firm growth options as explanations for the value and momentum 
premia,
3 which are predominant ly motivated by firm equity.  These theories seem ill equipped to 
explain the same and correlated effects we find in currencies, government bonds, and commodities.   
We also highlight that studying value and momentum jointly is more powerful than examining 
each in isolation. The negative correlation between value and momentum strategies and their high 
positive expected returns implies that a simple combination of the two is much closer to the efficient 
frontier than either strategy alone, and exhibits less variation across markets and over time. The 
return premium to a combination of value and momentum applied across all asset classes, therefore, 
3 See Gomes, Kogan, and Zhang (2003), Zhang (2005), Li, Livdan, and Zhang (2009), Belo (2010),  Li and Zhang 
(2010), Liu and Zhang (2008), Berk, Green, and Naik (1999 ), Johnson (2002), Sagi and Seasholes (2007) , Liu, 
Whited, and Zhang (2009). 

 4 
presents an even bigger challenge for asset pricing theories to accommodate (e.g., the Hansen and 
Jagannathan (1997) bound). 
Our work also relates to the recent literature on global asset pricing.  Fama and French (2012) 
examine the returns to size, value, and momentum in individual stocks across global equity markets 
and find consiste nt risk premia across market s. Considering both global equities and other global 
asset classes Frazzini and Pedersen (2010) find consistent returns to “betting against beta,” Koijen, 
Moskowitz, Pedersen, and Vrugt (2012) document global “carry” returns, and Moskowitz, Ooi, and 
Pedersen (2012) present global evidence of “time series momentum.” Time series momentum is a 
timing strategy using each asset’s own past returns, which is separate from the cross -sectional 
momentum strategies we study here. Focusing on this different  time series phenomenon, Moskowitz, 
Ooi, and Pedersen (2012)  examine returns to futures contracts on equity indices, bonds, currencies, 
and commodities—ignoring individual stocks, which comprise half our study here —and address a 
different set of questions. Our focus is on the interaction between cross -sectional momentum and 
value strategies and their common factor structure globally, where we find striking co- movement 
across assets and a link to liquidity risk. 
The link to funding liquidity risk may also be consistent with global arbitrage activity in the face 
of funding constraints influencing  value and momentum returns  (Brunnermeier and Pedersen 
(2009)). Why does momentum load positively on liquidity risk and value load negatively?  A simple 
and natural story might be that momentum represents the most popular trades, as investors chase 
returns and flock to the assets whose prices appreciated most recently.  Value, on the other hand, 
represents a contrarian view.  When a liquidity shock occurs , investors engaged in liquidating sell 
offs (due to cash needs and risk management) will put more price pressure on the most popular and 
crowded trades, such as high momentum securities, as everyone runs for the exit at the same time 
(Pedersen (2009)), while the less crowded contrarian/value trades  will be less affected. 
Vayanos and Wooley (2012) offer a model of value and momentum returns due to delegated 
management that may be consistent with these results.  They argue that flows between investment 
funds can give rise to momentum effects from inertia due to slow moving capital, and eventually 
push prices away from fundamentals causing reversals or value effects.  Correlation of value and 
momentum across different asset classes could also be affected by funds flowing simultaneously 
across asset classes , which could in turn be impacted by funding liquidity. However, matching the 
magnitude of our empirical findings remains an open question.  
The paper proceeds as follows. Section I outline s our data and portfolio construction. Section II 
examines the performance of value and momentum across asset classes and documents their global 

 5 
co-movement. Section III investigates the source of common variation by examining macroeconomic 
and liquidity risk, and Section IV offers an empirically motivated three factor model to describe the 
cross section of returns across asset classes . Section V briefly discusses the robustness of our results 
to implementation issues.  Section VI concludes by discussing the implications of our findings. 
I. Data and Portfolio Construction
We describe our data and methodology for constructing value and momentum portfolios across 
markets and asset classes.  
A. Data
Global Individual Stocks. We examine value and momentum portfolios of individual stocks
globally across four equity markets:  U.S., U.K., continental Europe ( excluding the U.K.), and Japan. 
The U.S. stock universe consists of all common equity in CRSP (sharecodes 10 and 11) with a book 
value from Compustat in the previous six months, and at least 12 months of past return history  from 
January 1972 to July 2011. We exclude ADR’s, REITS, financials, closed end funds, foreign shares, 
and stocks with share prices less than $1 at the beginning of each month.  We limit the remaining 
universe of stocks in each market to a very liquid set of securities that could be trade d for reasonably 
low cost at reasonable trading volume size. Specifically, we rank stocks based on their beginning of 
month market capitalization in descending order and include in our universe the number of stocks 
that account cumulatively for 90% of the total market capitalization  of the entire stock market. 4 This 
universe corresponds to a n extremely liquid and tradeable set of securities.  For instance, over our 
sample period this universe corresponds to the largest 17% of firms on average. For the U.S. stock 
market at the beginning of the sample period (January 1972) our universe consists of the 354 largest 
firms and by the end of our sample (July 2011) the universe is the 676 largest names.  Hence, our 
sample of U.S. equities is significantly larger and more liquid than the Russell 1000.   
For stocks outside of the U.S., we use Datastream data from the U.K. , c ontinental Europe  
(across all European stock markets, excluding the U.K.), and Japan.  W e restrict the universe in each 
market using the same criteria used for U.S. stocks.  On average over the sample period, our universe 
represents the largest 13%, 20%, and 26% of firms in the U.K., Europe, and Japan, respectively. Data 
on prices and returns comes from Datastream, and data on book values is from Worldscope.   
Most studies of individual stocks examine a much broader and less liquid set of securities. We 
restrict our sample to a much more liquid universe (roughly the largest 20% of stocks in each market) 
4 This procedure is similar to how MSCI defines its universe of stocks for its global stock indices.  

 6 
to provide reasonable and conservative estimates of an implementable set of trading strategies  and to 
better compare those strategies with the set of strategies we employ in index futures, currencies, 
government bonds, and commodity futures, which are typically more liquid instruments.  Our results 
are conservative since value and momentum premia are larger among smaller, less liquid securities 
over the sample period we study.5 
All series are monthly and  end in July 2011. The U.S. and U.K. stock samples begin in January 
1972. The Europe and Japan stock samples begin in January 1974. The average (minimum) number 
of stocks in each market over their respective sample periods is 724 (354) in the U.S., 147 (76) in the 
U.K., 290 (96) in Europe, and 471 (148) in Japan.
Global Equity Indices . The universe of country  equity index futures consists of the following 
18 developed equity  markets: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, 
Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.K., and 
U.S.  Returns and price data as well as book values are obtained from MSCI. The sample covers the 
period January 1978 to July 2011, with the minimum number of equity indices being eight and all 18 
indices represented after 1980. The returns on the country equity index futures do not include any 
returns on collateral from transacting in futures contracts, hence these are comparable to returns in 
excess of the risk free rate. 
Currencies. We obtain spot exchange rates from Datastream covering the following 10 
currencies: Australia, Canada, Germany (spliced with the Euro), Japan, New Zealand, Norway, 
Sweden, Switzerland, U.K., and U.S. The data cover the period January 1979 to July 2011, where the 
minimum number of currencies is seven  at any point in time and all 10 currencies are available after 
1980. We compute returns from currency forward contracts, where currency returns are all dollar 
denominated and implicitly include the local interest rate differential. 
Global Government Bonds. Bond index returns come from Datastream, short rates and 10 year 
government bond yields are from Bloomberg, and inflation forecasts are obtained from investment 
bank analysts' estimates as compiled by Consensus Economics. We obtain government bond data f or 
the following 10 countries: Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Japan, Norway, Sweden, 
5 Hong, Lim, and Stein (2000), Grinblatt and Moskowitz (2004), Fama and French (2012 ), and Israel and 
Moskowitz (2012) show that value and momentum returns are inversely related to the size of securities over the time 
period studied here, though Israel and Moskowitz (2012 ) show this relation is no t robust for momentum in other 
sample periods. Value and momentum returns have also been shown to be stronger in less liquid emerging markets 
(Rouwenhorst (1999), Erb and Harvey (2006), Griffin, Ji, and Martin (2003)). A previous version of this paper used 
a broader and less liquid set of stocks that exhibited significantly stronger value and momentum returns.  

 7 
Switzerland, U.K., and U.S. over the period January 1982 to July 2011, where the minimum number 
of country bond returns is six at any point in time and all 10 country bonds are available after 1990. 
Commodity Futures. We cover 27 different commodity futures  obtained from several sources. 
Data on Aluminum, Copper, Nickel, Zinc, Lead, and Tin are from the London Metal Exchange 
(LME). Brent Crude and Gas Oil are from the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). Live Cattle, Feeder 
Cattle, and Lean Hogs are from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) . Corn, Soybeans, Soy 
Meal, Soy Oil, and Wheat are from the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT). WTI Crude, RBOB 
Gasoline, Heating Oil, and Natural Gas are from the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). 
Gold and Silver are from the New York Commodities Exchange (COMEX). Cotton, Coffee, Cocoa, 
and Sugar are from New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), and Platinum data are from the Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange (TOCOM).  The sample covers the period January 1972 to July 2011, with the 
minimum number of commodities being 10 at any point in time and all 27 commodities ava ilable 
after 1980. 
Returns for commodity futures are calculated as follows. Each day we compute the daily excess 
return of the most liquid futures contract, which is typically the nearest or  next nearest-to-delivery 
contract, and then compound the daily returns to a total return index from which we compute returns 
at a monthly horizon. Bessembinder (1992), de Roon, Nijman, and Veld (2000), Moskowitz, Ooi, 
and Pedersen (2012), and Koijen, Moskowitz, Pedersen, and Vrugt (2012) compute futures returns 
similarly. All returns are denominated in U.S. dollars  and do not include the return on collateral 
associated with the futures contract. 
B. Value and Momentum Measures
To measure value and momentum, we use the simplest and, to the extent a standard exists, most
standard measures.  We are not interested in coming up with the best predictors of returns in each 
asset class.  Rather, our goal is to maintain a simple and fairly uniform approach that is consistent  
across asset classes and minimizes the pernicious effects of data snooping. As such, if data snooping 
can be avoided, our results may therefore understate the true gross returns to value and momentum 
available from more thoughtfully chosen measures. 
For individual stocks, we use the common value signal of the ratio of the book value of equity to 
market value of equity, or book-to- market ratio, BE/ME (see Fama and French (1992, 1993) and 

 8 
Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny (1994)) of the stock.6 Book values are lagged six months to ensure 
data availability to investors at the time, and the most recent market values are used to compute the 
ratios.  For the purposes of this paper, using lagged or contemporary prices, rather than market values 
matched contemporaneously in time as in Fama and French (1992), is not important.  When using 
more recent prices in the value measure, the negative correlation between value and momentum is 
more negative and the value premium is slightly reduced, but our conclus ions are not materially 
affected.  A combination of value and momentum —one of the themes in this paper —obtains nearly 
identical pricing results whether lagging price in the value measure or not. Asness and Frazzini 
(2012) investigate this issue more thoroughly and argue that using contemporaneous market values 
can be important and ease interpretation when examining value in the presence of momentum, as we 
do in this paper.  Gerakos and Linnainmaa (2012) decompose value into book and market 
components and find that the market value of equity drives most of the relevant pricing information. 
For momentum, we use the common measure of the past 12 month cumulative raw return on the 
asset (see Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) , Asness (1994), Fama and French (1996), and Grinblatt and 
Moskowitz (2004)), skipping the most recent month’s return, MOM2-12. We skip the most recent 
month, which is standard in the momentum literature,  to avoid the one month reversal in stock 
returns, which may be related to liquidity or microstructure issues (Jegadeesh (1990), Lo and 
MacKinaly (1990), Boudoukh, Richardson, and Whitelaw (1994), Asness (1994), Grinblatt and 
Moskowitz (2004)).
7  
For all other asset classes, we attempt to define similar value and momentum meas ures. 
Momentum is straightforward since we can use the same measure for all asset classes, namely the 
return over the past 12 months skipping the most recent month. While excluding the most recent 
month of returns is not necessary for some of the other ass et classes we consider because they suffer 
6 While research has shown that there are other value measures that are more powerful for predicting stock returns 
(e.g., Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny (1994), Asness, Porter, and Stevens (2000), Piotroski (2000)), we maintain a 
basic and simple approach that is somewhat consistent across asset classes.  
7 Novy-Marx (2011) shows that the past 7 to 12 month return is a better momentum predictor in U.S. stocks than the 
past 2 to 6 month return, though the past 2  to 6 month return is still a positive predictor.  We use the more standard 
momentum measure based on the past 2  to 12 month return for several reasons.   First, as Novy-Marx (2011) shows, 
the benefit of using returns from the past 7  to 12 months as opposed to the entire 2 to 12 month past return is 
negligible in U.S. stocks.   Second, Goyal and Wahal (2012) examine the power of past 7 –to-12 versus past 2  to 6 
month returns across 36 countries and find that there is no significant difference between these past return predictors 
in 35 out of 36 countries —the exception being the U.S..   Third, MOM2-12 is the established momentum signal that 
has worked well out of sample across time and geography and been studied by many authors.  While we believe 
using MOM2-12 is the most prudent and reasonable measure to use for these reasons, using other momentum 
signals, such as MOM7-12, should not alter any of our conclusions. 

 9 
less from liquidity issues (e.g., equity index futures and currencies), we do so to maintain uniformity 
across asset classes.  Momentum returns for these asset classes are in fact stronger when we don’t 
skip the most recent month, hence our results are conservative. 
For measures of value, attaining uniformity is more difficult because not all asset classes have a 
measure of “book value.” For these assets, we try to use simple and consistent measures of value. For 
country indices, we aggregate up the individual stocks’ BE/ME  ratios by computing the average 
value weighted BE/ME among the index constituents of the country. This number matche s very 
closely the BE/ME ratios reported by MSCI for our country indices over our sample period. For 
commodities, we define “book value” as the spot price five  years ago, which we divide by the most 
recent spot price  to get our value measure , which is essen tially the negative of the  spot return over 
the last five years. Similarly, for currenc ies, our value measure is the negative of the five  year return 
on the exchange rate, taking into account the interest earned measured using local 3 month LIBOR 
rates.  The currency value measure is equivalently the five  year deviation from uncovered interest -
rate parity, or, assuming that real rates are constant across countries, it is a five  year change in 
purchasing power parity. For bonds, we similarly use the negative of the past five  year return as our 
value measure. The use of  past five year returns as measures of value is motivated by DeBondt and 
Thaler (1985), who use similar measures for individual stocks to identify “ cheap” and “expensive” 
firms. Fama and French (1996) show that the negative of the past five year return generates portfolios 
that are highly correlated with portfolios  formed on BE/ME, and Gerakos and Linnainmaa (2012) 
document a direct link between pas t returns and BE/ME ratios.  Theory also suggests a link between 
long-term returns and book-to -market value measures (e.g., Daniel, Hirshleifer, and Subrahmanyam 
(1998), Barberis, Shleifer, and Vishny (1998), Hong and Stein (1999), and Vayanos and Wooley  
(2011)).   
In the Internet A ppendix accompanying this paper, Table A1 shows that individual stock 
portfolios formed from the negative of past five  year returns are highly correlated with those formed 
on BE/ME ratios in our sample.  For example, among U.S. stocks the returns to a value factor formed 
from the negative of the past five  year return is 0.83 correlated with the return s formed from BE/ME 
sorts. In the U.K., Europe, and Japan the correlation between portfolio returns formed on negative 
past five year returns and BE/ME ratios is similarly high. Globally, a value factor averaged across all 
four stock markets estimated from negative past five  year return sorts has a 0 .86 correlation with a 
value factor formed from BE/ME sorts.  Hence, using past five year returns to measure value seems 
reasonable.   

 10 
C. Value and Momentum Portfolios: 48 New Test Assets
Using the measures above, w e construct a set of value and momentum portfolios within each
market and asset class by ranking securities within each asset class by value or momentum and 
sorting them into three equal groups.  W e then form three portfolios—high, middle, and low —from 
these groups, where for individual stocks  we value weight the returns in the portfolios by their 
beginning of month market capitalization, and f or the non-stock asset classes we equal weight  
securities.8  Given that our sample of stocks focuses exclusively on very large and liquid securities in 
each market, typically the largest quintile of securi ties, further value weighting the securities within 
this universe creates an extremely large and liquid set of portfolios that should yield very 
conservative results compared to typical portfolios used in the literature.  Thus, we generate three 
portfolios—low, middle, and high—for  each of the two characteristics —value and momentum —in 
each of the eight asset classes, producing 3 × 2 × 8 = 48 test portfolios.   
D. Value and Momentum Factors
We also construct value and momentum factors for each asset class, which are zero cost long-
short portfolios that use the entire cross  section of securities within an asset class . For any security 
i=1,…,N at time t with signal S it (value or momentum), we weight securities in proportion  to their 
cross-sectional rank based on the signal minus the cross -sectional average rank  of that signal.  
Simply using ranks of the signals as portfolio weights helps mitigate the influence of outliers, but 
portfolios constructed using the raw signals are similar and generate slightly better performance. 
Specifically, the weight on security i at time t is 
( ) ( ) (rank  –  rank / ),S
it t it i itw c S SN= Σ ( 1) 
where the weights across all stocks sum to zero, representing a dollar neutral long-short portfolio. We 
include a scaling factor ct such that the overall portfolio is scaled to one dollar long and one dollar 
short. The return on the portfolio is then, 
 , where (value, momentum).SS
t i it itr wr S= Σ∈  (2) 
We also construct a 50/50 equal combination ( COMBO) factor of value and momentum, whose 
returns are 
 0.5  0.5 .COMBO VALUE MOM
t ttr rr = +  (3) 
8 Weighting the non-stock asset classes by their ex ante volatility gives similar results. In addition, rebalancing back 
to equal weights annually rather than monthly produces similar results. 

 11 
These zero cost signal weighted portfolios are another way to examine the efficacy of value and 
momentum across markets and are used as factors in our pricing model .  Although these factors are 
not value weighted, the set of securities used to generate them are extremely large and liquid.  As we 
will show, the signal  weighted factor portfolios outperform simple portfolio sort spreads because 
security weights are a positive (linear) function of the signal, as opposed to the coarseness of only 
classifying securities into three groups. In addition, the factors are better diversified since all 
securities in the cross section are given non-zero weight.   
II. Value and Momentum Returns and Co-movement
Table I shows the consistent performance of value  and momentum, and the ir combination, 
within each of the major markets and asset classes we study. O ther studies examine value and 
momentum in some of the same asset classes, but to our knowledge we are the first to study them in 
combination and simultaneously across asset classes. In addition, w e also discover new evidence for 
value and momentum premia in asset classes not previously studied—both value and momentum in 
government bonds and value effects in currencies and commodities . Our emphasis, however, is on 
the power of applying value and momentum everywhere at once.   
A. Return Premia
Table I reports the annualized mean return, t-statistic of the mean, standard deviation, and
Sharpe ratio of the low (P1), middle (P2), and high (P3) portfolios for value and momentum in each 
market and asset class as well as the high minus low (P3-P1) spread portfolio and the signal weighted 
factor portfolio from equation (2).  Also reported are the intercepts or alphas, and their t -statistics (in 
parentheses) from a time  series regression of each return series on the return of the market index for 
each asset class. The market index for the stock strategies is the MSCI equity index for each country, 
for country index futures  it is the MSCI World Index, and for currencies, fixed income, and 
commodities, the benchmark is an equal weighted basket of the securities in each asset class. The last 
two columns of Table I report the same statistics for the 50/50 combination of value and momentum 
for the P3-P1 spread and signal  weighted factors and the last row for each asset class reports the 
correlation of returns between value and momentum for both the P3-P1zero cost spread portfolio and 
the signal-weighted factor returns. 
Panel A of Table I  reports results for each of the individual stock strategies. Consistent with 
results in the literature, there is a significant return premium for value in every stock market, with the 
strongest performance in Japan.  Momentum premia are also positive in every market, especially in 

 12 
Europe, but are statistically insignificant in Japan. As the last row for each market indicates, the 
correlation between value and momentu m returns is strongly negative, averaging about -0.60. 
Combining two positive return strategies with such strong negative corr elation to each other 
increases Sharpe ratio s significantly.  In every market, the value/ momentum comb ination 
outperforms either value or momentum by itself.  Hence, many theories attempting to explain the 
observed Sharpe ratio for value or momentum have a higher hurdle to meet if considering a simple 
linear combination of both.  
In addition, the combination of value and momentum is much more stable across markets. For 
instance, previous research attempting to explain why momentum does not seem to work very well in 
Japan (see Chui, Titman, and Wei (2010) for a behavioral explanation related to cultural biases) 
should confront the fact that value has performed exceptionally well in Japan during the same time 
period, and the fact that value and momentum are -0.64 correlated in Japan over this period.  So, 
rather than explain why momentum did not work in Japan, it would be nearly equally appropriate to 
ask why value did so well  (see Asness (2011)).  Moreover, an equal combination of value and 
momentum realizes an even higher Sharpe ratio than value alone in Japan, suggesting that a positive 
weight on momentum in Japan improves the efficient frontier, which is also confirmed from a static 
portfolio optimization. 
The last set of rows of Panel A of Table I  show the power of combining value and momentum 
portfolios across markets. We report an average of value, momentum, and their c ombination across 
all four regions (“ Global stocks”) by weighting each market by the inverse of their ex post sample 
standard deviation.
9 Value applied globally generates an annualized Sharpe ratio not much larger 
than the average of the Sharpe ratios across each market, indicating strong covariation among value 
strategies across markets. Likewise, momentum applied globally does not produce a Sharpe ratio 
much larger than the average Sharpe ratio across markets, indicating strong correlation structure 
among momentum portfolios globally, too. 
Panel B of Table I  reports the same statistics for the non-stock asset classes.  There are 
consistent value and momentum return premia in these asset classes as well, including some not 
9 We compute the monthly standard deviation of returns in each market and weight each market by the inverse of 
this number, rescaled to sum to one, to form a global portfolio across all markets.  Each market’s dollar contribution 
to the global portfolio  is therefore proportional to the reciprocal of its measured volatility, but each market 
contributes an equal fraction to the total volatility of the portfolio, ignoring correlations.  Weighting by total market 
cap or equal weighting produces nearly identical results, but we use the equal volatility weighting scheme to be 
consistent with what we do for the non-equity asset classes. 

 13 
previously examined (e.g., bonds, value in currencies and commodities). 10  While value and 
momentum returns vary somewhat across the asset classes, the combination of value and momentum 
is quite robust  due to a consistent negative correlation between value and momentum within e ach 
asset class that averages -0.54.  W e also examine a diversified portfolio of value, momentum, and 
their combination across all asset classes.  Since, the volatilities of the portfolios are vastly different 
across asset classes—for example, commodity strategies have about four times the volatility of bond 
strategies—we weight each asset class by the inverse of its ex -post sample volatility, so that each 
asset class contributes roughly an equal amount to the ex post volatility of the diversified portfolio. 11 
The diversified portfolio across all asset classes yields small improvements in Sharpe ratios, which 
suggests the presence of correlation structure in value and momentum returns across these different 
asset classes.  Models that give ri se to value and momentum returns in equities , such as the 
production or investment  based theories of Berk, Green, and Naik (1999), Johnson (2002), Gomes, 
Kogan, and Zhang (2003), Zhang (2005), Sagi and Seasholes (2007), Liu, Whited, and Zhang (2009), 
Li, Livdan, and Zhang (2009), Belo (2010), Li and Zhang (2010), Liu and Zhang (2008), may not 
easily apply to other asset classes that yield the same and correlated effects. 
Combining the stock (Panel A) and non-stock (Panel B) value and momentum strategies across 
all asset classes produces even larger Sharpe ratios, with the 50/50 value and momentum 
combination portfolio producing an annual Sharpe ratio of 1.42.  This Sharpe ratio presents an even 
greater challenge for asset pricing models, which already struggle to explain the magnitude of the 
U.S. equity premium and value and momentum premi a in U.S. stocks.  Considering value and 
momentum together and applying them globally across all asset classes, the Sharpe ratio hurdle these 
pricing models need to explain is several times larger than those found in U.S. equity data alone.   
B. Alternative Measures
We use a single measure for value and for momentum for all eight markets we study.  We
choose the most studied or simplest measure in each case and attempt to maintain uniformity across 
asset classes, in order to minimize the potential for data mining.  Using these simple, uniform 
measures results in positive risk premia for value and momentum in ev ery asset class we study, 
though some of the results are statistically insignificant.  In particular, our weakest results pertain to 
10 The somewhat weaker returns for the non-stock asset classes would be partially attenuated if transactions costs are 
considered, since trading costs are typically higher for individual stocks than the futures contracts we examine 
outside of equities. Therefore, net of trading cost returns would elevate the relative importance of the non -stock 
strategies. We discuss implementation issues briefly in Section V. 
11 Using ex ante rolling measures of volatility and covariances yields similar results.  

 14 
bonds, which do not produce statistically reliable premia.  However, data mining worries may be 
weighed against the potenti al improvements from having better measures of value and momentum.  
For example, take value strategies among bonds.  Using our current measure of value, the five year 
change in yield, we are only able to produce a Sharpe ratio of 0.18 and an alpha of 1.9% that is not 
statistically significant ( t-statistic of 1.68).  However, Panel C of Table 1 reports results for value 
strategies among bonds that use alternative measures, such as the real bond yield, which is the yield 
on 10 year bonds minus the fi ve year forecast in inflation, and the term spread, which is the yield on 
10 year bonds minus the short rate.  As Panel C of Table 1 shows, these alternative value measures 
produce Sharpe ratios of 0.73 and 0.55, respectively, and the t-statistics of their alphas are significant 
at 2.36 and 2.78.   
Moreover, we are able to produce even more reliable risk premia when using multiple measures 
of value that diversify away measurement error or noise across variables. 12  Creating a composite 
average index of  value measures using all three measures above, produces even stronger results, 
where the value strategy generates a Sharpe ratio of 0.91 to 1.10 with t -statistics of their alphas being 
4.40 and 5.48.  These alternative measures of value also blend nicely with our original measure for 
momentum, where in each case the 50/50 value/momentum combination portfolios also improve with 
these alternative measures. 
Hence, our use of single, simple, and uniform value and momentum measures may understate 
the true returns to these strategies in each asset class.  Nevertheless, we stick with these simple 
measures to be conservative and to mitigate data mining concerns, even though in the case of bonds 
the results appear to be insignificant with such simple measures. 
C. Co-movement Across Asset Classes 
Table II reports the correlations of value and momentum returns across diverse asset classes  to 
identify their common movements.  The strength of co-movement may support or challenge vari ous 
theoretical explanations for value and momentum, and may ultimately point to underlying economic 
drivers for their returns.  The correlations are computed from the returns of the sig nal weighted zero 
cost factor portfolios from equation (2), but results are similar using the top third minus bottom third 
P3-P1 portfolio returns.   
Panel A of Table II reports the correlations among value strategies and among momentum 
strategies globally across asset markets.  We first compute the average return series for value and 
                                                 
12 Israel and Moskowitz (2012) show how other measures of value and momentum can improve the stability of 
returns to these styles among individual equities.   

 15 
momentum across all stock markets and across all non-stock asset classes separately.  For example, 
we compute the volatility weighted average of all the individual stock value strategies across the four 
equity markets—U.S., U.K., Europe, and Japan— and the weighted average of value strategies across 
the non-equity asset classes —index futures, currencies, bonds, and co mmodities.  We do the same 
for momentum.  We  then compute the correlation matrix between these average return series.  The 
diagonal of the correlation matrix is computed as the average correlation between each individual 
market's return series and the aver age of all other  return series in other markets.  For instance, the 
first entry in the covariance matrix is the average of the correlations between each equity market’s 
value strategy and a portfolio of all other equity market value strategies:  an average of the 
correlation of U.S. value with a diversified value strategy in all other individual equity markets  
(U.K., Europe, and Japan), correlation of U.K. value with a diversified value strategy in U.S., 
Europe, and Japan, correlation of Europe value with a  diversified value strategy in U.S., U.K., and 
Japan, and correlation of Japan value with a diversified value strategy in U.S., U.K., and Europe.  In 
general, we obtain more powerful statistical findings when looking at the correlations of the average 
return series rather than the average of individual correlations, since the former better diversifies  
away random noise from each market, a theme we emphasize throughout the paper. 13  Correlations 
are computed from quarterly returns  to help mitigate any non-syn chronous trading issues across 
markets, due to illiquid assets that do not trade continuously or time zone differences .  An F-test on 
the joint significance of the correlations is also performed. 
Panel A of Table II  shows a consistent pattern, where value in one market or asset class is 
positively correlated with value elsewhere, momentum in one market or asset class is positively 
correlated to momentum elsewhere, and value and momentum are negatively correlated everywhere 
across markets and asset classes.  The average individual stock value strategy is 0.68 correlated with 
other stock market value strategies, and is 0.15 correlated with the average non-stock value strategy .  
The average individual stock momentum strategy is 0.65 correlated with other stock market 
momentum strategies and 0.37 correlated with the average non-stock momentum strategy. The strong 
correlation structure among value and momentum strategies across such different assets is interesting 
                                                 
13 In the Internet Appendix to the paper, we report in Table A2 the average of the individual correlations among the 
stock and non- stock value and momentum strategies, where we first compute the pair -wise correlations of all 
individual strategies (e.g., U.S. value with Japan value) and then take the average for each group.  We exclude the 
correlation of each strategy with itself (removing the 1’s) when averaging and also exclude the correlation of each 
strategy with all other strategies within the same market (i.e., exclude U.S. momentum when examinin g U.S. value’s 
correlation with other momentum strategies).  While these individual correlations are consistently weaker than those 
obtained from taking averages first and then computing correlations, the average pairwise correlations also exhibit 
strong co-movement among value and momentum across diverse assets. 

 16 
since these asset classes face different types of investors, institutional and market structures, and 
information environments. 
Value and momentum are also negatively correlated across asset classes. A value strategy in one 
stock market is on average -0.53 correlated with a portfolio of momentum strategies in other stock 
markets.  In addition, value in one asset class is negatively correlated with momentum in another 
asset class.  For example, the average stock value str